[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Portals represent a popular
recurring theme in science
fiction, an extraordinary
opening in space that connects
travelers to alternate
timelines and distant realms.
In 2012, NASA announced that
the University of Iowa physicist
Jack Scudder found hard
evidence of portals created
by the interaction between
the Earth's and sun's
magnetospheres.
These portals are extremely
volatile and unpredictable,
opening and closing
in an instant.
But Scudder found markers, which
allowed NASA probes to locate
and study them.
Observations by NASA's THEMIS
spacecraft and Europe's cluster
probes suggest
that these magnetic
portals open and close
dozens of times each day.
If portal phenomena
have been proven
to exist scientifically
in space,
can we assume it's possible
to find them on Earth?
If so, what evidence
do we have to support
the existence of these
hyperdimensional gateways?
>> So what exactly is a portal?
A portal in this case
would be somewhere
that you could quite literally
step inside and exist
within what I would call a
multi-dimensional environment
for a short period of time,
what we call a bubble universe
environment, and then
be thrown out of that,
back into your own world.
Or it's possible that
by entering inside it,
it almost acts like what I refer
to as a static elevator that's
not moving through space.
In other words,
through distance,
or it's not moving through time.
But it's actually moving
through realms of existence.
So you walk into it.
You enter into this
bubble universe.
And when you step out of
it, you could possibly
be in a parallel reality
or a parallel world
or back in your own world.
And just maybe, just
maybe there is a chance
that you could end
up on another planet.
>> This idea of cosmic shortcuts
came out of Einstein's theories
originally.
Then around 1916,
they started talking
about the possibility
of white holes
as an adjunct to the
known black holes,
and that the white
hole and the black hole
would be connected through
some form of a conduit.
And we started then to
think about the possibility
of wormholes, these
cosmic shortcuts that
interpenetrate the cosmos.
And the theory is that these are
naturally occurring wormholes.
They're microscopic.
And if we were able
to open one, it
would require massive
amounts of exotic matter
to open the mouth of a wormhole
so that actual matter could
go through it.
But the theory is there.
The science is there that says
that wormholes and stargates
are theoretically possible.
And in fact, they're probable.
>> Now we're starting to
discover that black holes
and wormholes are connected,
that the black holes are like
the hubs of the
wormholes, the network.
And these wormholes
connect distant places
almost instantaneously.
>> Some theorists suggest
that the sun is a portal.
The entrance is a black hole.
The exit is a sun.
The energy enters through
the black hole and exits
through the sun,
making a toroid.
The influence of
the toroid can be
several thousands
of light years,
and it's all intertwined.
There's a complex system based
on frequencies in its interior.
All the suns and
all the black holes
are connected from
their interior,
creating, with the proper
knowledge of frequency mapping,
a whole communication system
that can take you anywhere
in the galaxy and the universe.
The portal of our sun,
they further postulate,
is an exit point of a black
hole entrance connected
to the Andromeda constellation.
In pop culture, portals are
also commonly referred to
as stargates.
The term stargate has been
used to describe devices
that allow practical,
rapid travel between two
distant locations.
>> But the problem with a
portal, they're not stable.
They're like rubber
bands being pulled tight
and then being let go.
They snap.
And then when they stop,
that's where they are.
So there's no rhyme or reason
where they're moving around.
So if you enter a
portal, you know,
god knows where you're
going to end up at.
And if you come back
through to that end,
if you're lucky
enough to find it,
it's going to be somewhere else.
But now a stargate,
that's different.
That's basically taking a--
a random flying black
hole, and you've completely
immobilized it where
it stays put and moves
upon your command.
If you have stargate, that's
an implication somebody
can manipulate that
technology and they
have calmed that thing down
and stabilized the black hole
till it's stationary.
And that would be
your stargates.
>> While many people distinguish
portals as naturally occurring
phenomena and stargates as
technologically created,
theoretical physicist Jack
Sarfatti suggests otherwise.
>> The words portal,
traversable wormhole, stargate,
just different words
for the same thing.
It allows you to get from point
A to point B very quickly.
And-- and you can even in
principle go to the past,
go to the future, or go very far
away in the same time period.
There is a cosmic
time that's determined
by the temperature
of the black body
radiation of the photons
coming from the Big Bang.
We can determine a kind of
absolute cosmological time
from the temperature of the
back body radiation coming
from the Big Bang.
That's a whole other--
that's standard physics.
That's like standard
mainstream cosmology.
>> While traversing time
via stargates or portals may
for now only be
theoretically possible,
astonishingly we do have
legitimate accounts of people
having actually
traveled through them.
Perhaps one of the
more compelling stories
of direct portal
experiences comes
from Uri Geller, famous for
his telekinesis abilities
as well as using his
paranormal skills
for the CIA and other
covert government agencies.
>> My most unbelievable,
incredible, astonishing,
phenomenal, paranormal
experience that I encountered,
that I had throughout my
last 72 years of existence is
the moment my body
dematerialized from 57th Street
in New York, in Manhattan,
to Ossining, New York,
36 miles away in no time.
Just like that.
I'm in New York.
I live on 57th Street
and 1st Avenue.
I had an apartment there.
And it was the birthday
of a doctor we know.
So I decided to buy him a
binocular in Bloomingdale's.
I go to Bloomingdale's.
I buy the binocular.
And then I decide, before
I get back to 57th Street,
I decide to go up and visit our
very close friend, Maria Janis
Cooper and Byron Janis.
And I go up to their apartment.
We talk a little.
And I say, OK, I'm
going home now.
Binocular in my
hand, package up.
And I get to 57th Street,
and I can see from afar
the canopy of our building.
You know, in New York, you
have canopies protruding out
of the building for rainy days.
And as I look at the
canopy, I suddenly
feel that my feet are not
touching the pavement anymore.
There is something missing.
I was, like, walking in the air.
And I look down, and I'm--
I just-- I didn't
know what to think,
because I wasn't
on the pavement.
And the next thing
I can remember,
that I'm being hurled
towards a mesh screen.
I didn't recognize where
I was being thrown into,
but my instinct was
to protect my head.
And I-- I'm crashing
through a mesh screen.
You know, those to keep
out flies in summer.
And there's a big
round table, and I--
I fall on the table.
There's glass on the
table, so it slips
from under my hands and breaks.
There's a lot of noise.
And I crash onto the floor.
And I'm looking around,
and I recognize the room.
I'm in the porch, in the summer
porch of Dr. Andrija Puharich's
house in Ossining, New York,
36 miles out of New York.
So I'm-- I'm kind of stunned
from the fall, from--
more from the fall than from
the transition from 57th Street
in New York.
And I start shouting,
Andrija, Andrija.
So it takes a few minutes
for Andrija to find me.
And he says, what
are you doing here?
And he looks at the screen
that I came in from,
and it's torn inwards.
And I say to him, I
just left Maria's.
He knew Maria, of my
friendship with Maria.
And he picks up the phone and
he says, Maria, Uri's here.
And I couldn't
hear, but he later
told me that there was silence.
And Maria then says to him,
what do you mean, Uri's here?
He just left our apartment
on 521 Park Avenue.
>> Now, I happen to have
spent a lot of time with Byron
and Maria.
I know them very well.
And they confirm the story.
I don't believe there's
anything supernatural.
I think everything that we
think is supernatural is easily
explained by elementary physics,
including our consciousness.
There's nothing supernatural.
It's all-- what appears to
be supernatural is simply
because our concept of what
is natural is too small.
We're in too small a box.
My claim is we understand
the phenomenon.
>> The way I explain this
phenomenon to myself,
whether I use the
words a multi--
multi-dimensional shift or a
quantum mechanical, quantum
entanglement phenomenon,
a bizarre dark loophole
in the-- in our existence that
can shift you and materialize
you, dematerialize you
from one place to another,
I don't really know.
How-- how can I know?
>> So actually, you know,
black holes themselves could be
thought as evidence of
portals and wormholes.
Certainly, we could
think of it that way.
You know, and if
that's all true, right,
if it's true that
particle-to-particle
interaction, entanglement
is the result of wormholes,
if it's true that Einstein field
equation predicts wormholes
exist as a result
of these equations,
then it is true that there
could be wormhole attachments
to the surface of our
planet that could be opened
and entered and utilized.
>> Mainstream cosmology posits
that a natural stargate is
similar to an Einstein-Rosen
bridge, or wormhole,
which has been theorized to form
when space time is distorted
by the intense gravitational
fields generated by collapsing
stars.
At a singularity
point, time would
stop as it stretches
to infinity,
as predicted by Einstein's
general theory of relativity.
Physicists consider
it to be theoretically
possible for an
Einstein-Rosen bridge
to form wherein one could even
travel back and forth in time.
>> The portal is simply
the entrance and exit
to a stargate.
You know, if you see
the movie "Stargate,"
you have the big ring,
OK, that big metal ring,
that'll be made out
of metal material.
Now, you put electricity into
the-- into the metal ring,
and it generates the
warp field and you
walk through the stargate.
So they pretty much have it the
way it's going to really be.
>> Scientists are of
two minds about this.
Some say, absolutely no way.
Stephen Hawking was like that.
He said, there's no way
that you could travel
through time through a portal.
But then you have other
scientists that say, no, this
is theoretically
possible that we
may, in fact, be able
to travel through time
through the portals.
The answer is for now,
we just don't know.
>> Researchers across a variety
of disciplines have pointed
to areas worldwide known for
their anomalous energies.
Strange phenomena
have been reported
around ancient
megaliths, ley lines,
and sacred historic sites.
Written history
tells the stories
of travelers who were able to
journey to mysterious places,
allowing some to even
travel among the gods.
But where are these places?
And are they nothing
more than a myth?
>> The Great Pyramid,
Solomon's Temple,
Mount Meru are
just a few of them.
Teotihuacan.
These are all powerful
temple complexes
that have portal stories
attached to them.
They believe they're
places where the gods lived
or where the gods
would come down,
or where even
humans could ascend
into the celestial
realms from these places.
And so by definition,
those are portals.
>> There's clearly a worldwide
grid of natural and artificial
time warp zones, which are
actual targets to heavenly
dimensions.
Many of them are currently
deactivated because they
were used at previous times.
So it seems that
in ancient times,
the Great Pyramid could very
well have been an activated
stargate that would open
and energize and allow
for consciousness as
well as perhaps even
the body to ascend an activated
stargate with the energy
technology being
produced within it.
So legends say that after
Atlantis, some of the remaining
civilization went to Egypt,
and that was one of the energy
activation points.
So I believe that many
of the other points that
had been ancient stargates
are lost, like the Bermuda
Triangle, like places
in the Antarctic.
So many of them are
not active today.
>> In ancient temples
all around the world,
we find these doorways
that are very strange.
They're carved into the stone.
They don't go anywhere.
They don't go through.
It's unclear why it was
put there, and so on.
And you could think that maybe
in certain circumstances maybe
some of the
technology is missing,
or maybe at a certain time
of the year, a certain moment
of the day, you know,
when the sun is just right
or when the moon is just
right, all of a sudden
this doorway becomes
a portal into one
of those wormhole-entangled
structures of spacetime.
Is that possible?
I think maybe.
However, it's very
difficult to demonstrate it.
And maybe the technology
and the discoveries
we will do in the next
decade, because we're
very much on that path
currently of discovering
wormholes and understanding
black holes better.
Maybe these discoveries
will give us
the key to be able to open
those doorways, those portals,
and utilize them.
>> Well, since I've been
talking for about an hour here,
this studio on this planet has
moved 100,000 miles through
space.
We're on a spacecraft
that's moving
on 100,000 miles an hour.
Well, we may flew right across
the path of a mini black hole.
And that thing
would be independent
of our gravitational field.
It is its own graviton.
>> There are many cases where
people have quite literally
gone missing from a certain
location only to be re-found
hundreds of miles away.
And I think that in some
cases, what's happened
is that they've entered into
a portal and been thrown out.
And where they've
been thrown out
is in space, hundreds of
miles from where they actually
went in to the portal itself.
So in other words,
you know, it's
a difficult thing to control.
But I think the key is belief,
absolute belief in what you
are doing, because there
is a human consciousness
interaction taking place.
So if we fully understand that
if we enter into a portal,
we can control what happens
to us when we're inside it
and control where
we come out, this
will actually really
help in us making sure
that we get back to our reality.
>> Jacques Vallee and Eric Davis
have written a paper called
"High Strangeness," OK?
And they claim seeing
a Bigfoot-type creature
at night come through a portal.
So the whole Bigfoot phenomenon,
these may be creatures from
where, we don't know.
But they're coming
through portals.
They're coming
through stargates.
So all these weird phenomena are
all tightly connected together.
It really is kind of a
tight weave narrative, OK?
And again, it's a
question of, who's
controlling the narrative?
>> If in theory the portal
and stargate phenomenon can be
created, what would that take?
And how would we create that
with our technology today?
>> If I wanted to make a
stargate to essentially
teleport or bring me from
one place to another,
what I would do is two things.
First of all, create quantum
sensors, and obviously
the right quantum-computing
algorithms
that could use those
quantum sensors to read
the entire state
of the human body.
So every atomic in quantum
state and information
of the human body
would get read in.
Then you would most
likely unfortunately get
destructed, at which
point at the other side
of the stargate entry,
we would recreate
your atomic information
at the quantum level using
transmutations and just, like,
very advanced, let's say,
alchemy that we
don't have right now.
But that's how I would
go about doing that.
>> If successful, what might
the consequences be of traveling
through a portal?
>> Timelines work like a tree.
You got a big trunk, a
main flow, a mainstream,
thousands of branches, 1,000--
10,000 branches
branching off of those.
And all of those, each one of
those veins can be a timeline.
So it depends on
what you're doing
and what you're changing will
determine where you end up
on the tree of time and
what your reality will
be perceived by you.
You know, god knows.
I don't know.
But I would recommend
to time travelers
that they better have a real
sense of self-sacrificing,
because you're going to lose
yourself in that eventually.
And god knows where you
end up, but you're not
going to end up with anything
that you're familiar with.
You may return to your
time and the world
would be entirely different
than you will ever know it.
And you're the only one that
would notice the difference.
Nobody else around you would.
So that's the crazy thing.
>> The concern about portals
often raised is if one travels
through a portal, is
there a way to return?
According to the
description by Uri Geller
and the portal stories
related by others,
very often people are literally
ejected from the portals
as unexpectedly as
they entered into them.
>> So why is it that when we
enter inside these portals that
very often we are
regurgitated out from them?
Yes, we lose some time.
It could be a few minutes,
a few hours, a few days,
maybe even a few weeks.
But why is it that
we do come back?
And I think the answer to
that is that we can only
stay in a multi-dimensional
state, which quite literally is
every atom of our body, every
particle of our body shattered
into pieces.
I think that we can only
remain in that type of state
for a limited period of time
before our physicality is
almost rejected by these
multi-dimensional environments,
and we're just pushed out again.
And I think that's good.
That's really, really
good, because it
means that certainly,
99% of the people that
enter into these portals
will come back again.
Unfortunately,
there probably will
be a few who, once they
do enter these gateways,
will never return.
But that just seems
to be a consequence
of our understanding of
the existence of portals.
>> There's most likely
a way to get back.
However, when you
come back, things
might have changed dramatically
because of relativity.
That is, for you it might have
been only a few seconds for you
to go to the other side
of the galaxies and back.
But for the people
that stayed behind,
it might have been
a few generations.
And so you might meet your
grand grand grandson of--
instead of your own
family when you come back.
>> There have been highly
controversial claims that
the military industrial complex
has had the ability to time
travel through portals
for more than 40 years.
Buried deep within
unacknowledged special access
programs, a number of highly
advanced technologies allowing
for teleportation, physical time
travel, and holographic time
travel is allegedly run
jointly by the CIA and DARPA
to teleport to Mars as well
as maintain relationships
with extraterrestrials.
If there is any truth
to these assertions
that portal travel
is indeed possible,
what would be the
implications for humanity
if we discovered a
functional, natural portal
or were able to create a
technological stargate?
>> The implications are--
they're incredible.
We could go to Mars.
We could go to the stars.
We could populate exoplanets.
The stars are our destination.
This is a way of
getting to the stars.
We're not going to crawl on
our hands and knees and rockets
to the stars and take
thousands of years.
That's nonsense.
Geometric engineering
is the future.
Einstein to me, in his
scientific theories
and equations, proven
scientific equations,
were massively important
to balance my belief
system that these things are not
only ether and exist out there,
but you can derive
them, extract them out
of his scientific formulas and
prove to the ordinary person
that their ideas about
life after death and spirit
and ghosts actually really
do exist, because Einstein
backed it up with hard science.
That's why Einstein
was so brilliant.
>> If we could create
our own portals,
we would be able to
transport food, agriculture,
technologies to
anybody, anywhere.
It would equal--
act as an equalizer.
I think that the idea
of extraterrestrials
using engineered wormholes
to communicate with us
is very possible.
If they're advanced enough,
then why not, you know?
Why would they not install a
communication sort of device
that works anywhere from the
galaxy, from point A to B?
And they have instant
access to everybody.
>> We might travel inside our
solar system first before we
endeavor to travel
across the galaxy.
But the connection with other
societies in our universe
becomes possible.
Certainly, you know, almost an
infinite amount of resources
would be open to us.
You know, all this would
open up our society
to a whole different way of
interacting with the universe
and with ourselves.
>> I mean, you're talking
firstly about proving many not
just biblical stories, but
other stories from other sacred
traditions of beings coming and
going through these portals.
That means those
stories are true,
that either humans were
advanced enough to do this
or we're talking about advanced
beings that came to Earth
and were demonstrating
their ability to do this.
So that is one of the
implications of portals
becoming real in our world.
The other is that
suddenly, teleportation
becomes a commonplace thing.
What happens to the spiritual
essence of yourself, your soul?
Does it automatically know
to follow your physical body
and to reformulate at
that other location?
How exactly would that work?
We don't know.
But these are part of
the questions that we're
going to have to
answer if we're going
to be able to ultimately
create a civilization based
on the concept of portals.
>> If a portal opened
in front of me now,
would I step through?
And I think the answer
is it would depend
on my state of mind and my
absolute belief in what I was
doing, because only
that would ensure
that I returned afterwards.
>> We live in fascinating
times where science and what we
imagine through science fiction
are merging their realities
within the same timeline.
While Albert Einstein
and Nathan Rosen
brought portals and
stargates closer to reality,
the question remains, who
will be the next genius taking
humanity from one step
closer to one step
through the portal and
stargate phenomenon,
making travel to the most
remote stars in the universe
the reality of today?
On the next episode
of "Deep Space,"
we examine the elongated
skulls of Peru.
[MUSIC PLAYING]